Goal 1: No poverty: "End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture."

Goal 2: Zero hunger: "End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture

Goal 3: Good health and well-being for people: "Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.

Goal 4: Quality education: "Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all."

Goal 5: Gender equality: "Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls."

Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation: "Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all."

Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy: "Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all."

Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth": "Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all."

Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure: "Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation."

Goal 10: Reducing inequalities: "Reduce income inequality within and among countries."

Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities:  "Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable."

Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production:  "Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns."

Goal 13: Climate action: "Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts by regulating emissions and promoting developments in renewable energy."

Goal 14: Life below water: "Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development.

Goal 15: Life on land: "Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss."

Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions: "Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels."

Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals: "Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development."
